# dataRRANSAC
Last update: 19.06.2021

Runs the multi-target tracker RRANSAC (C++). The input is a YAML (or YML) file with the detections, and the output is another YML file that should be read using dataRRANSACutils.py.

## TL;DR
- How to run:
```
./dataRRANSAC -data exampleInput.yml -M 50 -U 5 -tau_rho 0.1 -tau_T 3 -Nw 100 -ell 200 -tauR 2 -Qm 2 -Rmx 5 -Rmy 17  -display ~/IncorGDrive/LabCog/ProjetoMila-andamento/dados/videosComplicados/1_2019-04-05_06-40-00.mp4 -out test.yml
```
- Build:
```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
```
- These parameters were manually adjusted. The input detections were obtained using a YOLOv5l. (Parameters may vary in other cases. In this particular case, the detector was quite good.)
- The Python files (*.py) are for reading the YML files generated by dataRRANSAC (C++).


## dataRRANSAC
The dataRRANSAC runs RRANSAC on a YML (OpenCV) file containing centroids. The RRANSAC parameters must be specified in the command line. The results produce another YML (OpenCV).

* Uses rransacFrameN.hpp,cpp

##### Options:
- data: input YML file
- out: output YML with the generated tracks
- outfw: output YML with the generated tracks, with information separated into paired vectors (frames, IDs, positions)
- display: (optional) video on which the RRANSAC result is displayed
- *Mandatory* RRANSAC parameters:
```
 RRANSAC params: (must have)
  -M         (int) Number of stored models
  -U,        (float) Merge threshold
  -tau_rho   (float) Good model quality threshold
  -tau_T,    (int) Minimum number of time steps needed for a good model
  -Nw,       (int) Measurement window size
  -ell,      (int) Number of RANSAC iterations
  -tauR,     (int) Inlier threshold (multiplier)
  -Qm,       (float) Q multiplier
  -Rmx,      (float) Rx multiplier
  -Rmy       (float) Ry multiplier
```
*The most reliable output currently is to use `outfw` and then read it with `dataRRANSACutils.py` using `framewiseMeans2(readTrackerResults(yml))`*


## dataRRANSACutils.py
Python function that reads the YML generated by dataRRANSAC and returns the tracks.
* Uses the YAML package. The best way to use it is by importing it into your code.
Additionally, it has a function to create a command (CLI) and run dataRRANSAC from a dictionary with parameters.

## dataRRANSACyml2pkl.py
ToDo: Converts the tracks from YML to a PKL file.
* Only kept because it has an example of how to read the YML using OpenCV.

## rransacFrameN
In the original rransac.hpp,cpp (../code/), whenever a good track is completed, it becomes available in `std::<RRANSACmodel>tracks`. However, despite knowing its trajectory, other information such as the number of frames in which it appeared, blob size, etc., is not available. To solve this, I created rransacFeats (formigometro), which inserts methods for obtaining desired features within the tracks and stores their values. However, a features class can only be specified before the RRANSAC class itself so that it can be inserted into it (I tested inserting a base class and then deriving it, but the problem was updating the values—the iterations ended up starting and accumulating instances in memory).

In this particular case, the only actually necessary information was knowing the frame number corresponding to each position of a track. For this, I created this specific rransacFeats that accomplishes this (rransacFrameN).

## ToDo:
- Compute position averages when an ID has more than one position in the same frame.
- Standardize this for both `out` and `outfw`.
